
If this issue draws any interest, I will file separate issues for the separate 
proposals here, and hopefully at some future date provide PRs for them.

Context: For a variety of reasons, I have been using command-line editors all 
my working life, starting with DEC Teco, then ed, and finally ex. I'd like to 
switch to sam -d, but I think the command language needs a bit of extension 
before I can use it as an ex replacement. This issue provides a brief 
explanation of the commands I think ought to be added.

l (list): Same as p, but outputs a $ before each newline and a ^ after each 
newline. If dot includes a line fragment at the beginning, it will not begin 
with ^; if it includes a line fragment at the end, it will not end with $.

L (lines): Same as p, but outputs a line number before each complete line (not 
including line fragments). This number is up to 7 characters long and 
right-justified, and followed by a single space. Line fragments begin with 8 
spaces instead.

z (window): Extends dot to complete lines. If followed by +, prints the next w 
- 1 lines; if followed by -, prints the previous w - 1 lines; sets dot in 
either case. The default is +. If followed by p, l, or L uses that command for 
printing. The default is p. Sets dot to what was displayed. See the window 
option below for how to set the value of w.

[ (yank) file and ] file (put): [ replaces dot with the whole contents of file. 
] replaces the whole contents of file with dot. As a special case, ] clears the 
modified flag on file. This is done because typically the file will not 
correspond to any external file.

N (next): N+, N-, N0 make the next, previous, or first file in the menu the 
current file. N by itself is the same as N+.

W (writeall): Writes all modified files: same as X/^-/w, but harder to get 
wrong.

T tag (tag): Reads through all tag files, which are files namd tags in the 
directories of the tagpath (see below) to find a matching tag. Then loads the 
file specified by the tag as if by B, and then searches for the search string 
specified by the tag, setting dot to it. The -T command line option performs 
this command at startup.

o option (option): Allows dynamic setting of any of the sam (not samterm) 
options explained below.

Here are the options I'm proposing. They affect the behavior of the command 
part of sam. Except as noted, all default to false.

autoread [true|false]: If true, then when a file becomes the current file, 
check if the last modification of the corresponding external file is later than 
the last modification of the file, do an e on the file.

autowrite [true|false]: If true, then just before a file stops being the 
current file, write it out with w if the modified flag is set.

backup [true|false]: If true, and a file is being written externally for the 
first time, rename the external file from foo to foo~ so that the external file 
will be re-created. Make sure the file permissions are unchanged.

prompt [true|false]: Before reading from stdin, prompt with * (same as ed 
prompt).

readonly [true|false]: If true, the w command is forbidden unless an external 
file is specified. This helps protect against overwriting files being examined 
by accident.

restricted [true|false]: If true, the cd, !, <, >, and | commands are forbidden 
outright, and the w and f are forbidden if an external file is specified. This 
prevents other changes to the file system from being made. Executing as rsam 
sets both readonly and restricted.

tagpath path: Specifies a colon-separated path of directories in which tags 
files may be found. It is not an error if such files do not exist. Defaults to 
..

window integer: Specifies the window size used by the z command. Can be 
overridden by the -w command line switch. Defaults to 24.

Query 1: Does any of this require modification of the samterm-to-sam protocol? 
I hope not.

Query 2: Should the options above go into .samrc (in which case samterm needs 
to parse and ignore them), or into a separate .samdrc file? The former is more 
convenient, but the latter makes more sense for remote sam operation.
