
If this issue draws any interest, I will file separate issues for the separate 
proposals here, and hopefully at some future date provide PRs for them.

Context: For a variety of reasons, I have been using command-line editors all 
my working life, starting with DEC Teco, then ed, and finally ex. I'd like to 
switch to sam -d, but I think the command language needs a bit of extension 
before I can use it as an ex replacement. This issue provides a brief 
explanation of the commands I think ought to be added.

l (list): Same as p, but outputs a $ before each newline and a ^ after each 
newline. If dot includes a line fragment at the beginning, it will not begin 
with ^; if it includes a line fragment at the end, it will not end with $.

L (lines): Same as p, but outputs a line number before each complete line (not 
including line fragments). This number is up to 7 characters long and 
right-justified, and followed by a single space. Line fragments begin with 8 
spaces instead.

z (window): Extends dot to complete lines. If followed by +, prints the next w 
- 1 lines; if followed by -, prints the previous w - 1 lines; sets dot in 
either case. The default is +. If followed by p, l, or L uses that command for 
printing. The default is p. Sets dot to what was displayed. See the window 
option below for how to set the value of w.

[ (yank) file and ] file (put): [ replaces dot with the whole contents of file. 
] replaces the whole contents of file with dot. As a special case, ] clears the 
modified flag on file. This is done because typically the file will not 
correspond to any external file.

N (next): N+, N-, N0 make the next, previous, or first file in the menu the 
current file. N by itself is the same as N+.

W (writeall): Writes all modified files: same as X/^-/w, but harder to get 
wrong.

Here are the command-line options I'm proposing. They affect the behavior of the command 
part of sam. 

-a   Just before a file stops being the 
current file, write it out with w if the modified flag is set.

-p    Before reading from stdin, prompt with * (same as ed).
prompt).

-w integer: Specifies the window size used by the z command. Can be 
overridden by the -w command line switch. Defaults to 24.

